All right let's go ahead and create a semi truck now before we do that.
We're going to select all of our layers that make up our tree.
And then we're going to go ahead and put those into a folder then we're going to turn that off so it's
out of our way.
All right.
So the first thing we want to do with our semi truck is build the body.
So starting on my layer with my cube I'm going to go ahead and make a copy of that and then I'm going
to take that copy and drag it over like so and I'm going to shrink it down.
But there should be good.
You can make it whatever size you like.
I'm going to go ahead and hit enter.
Perfect.
Next we're going to make a copy of this letter and I will drag that over.
We want it to be behind that box.
And this is going to be the back part of our semi truck so this will be the front.
This will be the back.
Now we want this to be higher than the front part of our semi truck so we're going to put it about there
then we're going to go ahead and make a copy of that and drag the underneath and move it back like.
So this is going to be the back half of our semi truck with zoom in there and using our arrow keys on
our keyboard we can go ahead and nudge that end up over till we get it lined up perfectly great next.
What we want to do is we want to make the bottom part of our semi truck back.
And this is where the wheels are going to be attached.
So let's go ahead and merge these two cubes together I can select both those and merge.
So now those are one layer and then I'm going to make a copy of that layer and drag it underneath.
So now I have a second one underneath there with this layer what I'm going to do is I'm going to shrink
it down using my Transform Tool.
And as I shrink it I'm going to hold down shift and old to keep us from portions and to keep it centered.
So shrink it down to about there enter and then I'm going to nudge that up using my arrow keys.
So I'm up to about that point.
Perfect.
Next we're going to add in some detail on the front part of our truck.
So let's zoom in there and what we're going to do is we're going to come down to this original cube
make a copy of that layer and drag it out like so.
And we want it to be at the very top of all our other one and then we're going to shrink that down using
a Transform Tool and will shrink it down to about that size should be good.
Maybe just the tiniest bit larger there might enter next.
Let's go ahead and make a copy of that and we'll drag that over like so.
Get it lined up and we want to pull it underneath that one that we want to get rid of that little gap
in there.
Great.
Now let's make one more copy of that.
So control J.
Try and over get it lined up and then try to get underneath pushed into place with her.
Eric he's perfect.
Now let's go ahead and take all these layers and merge them together.
So now that's all one layer.
Next we want to center this along cube within this bigger cube.
So right now we're a little off centered and you can tell because the distance between here and here
and the distance between there and there is different.
So we needed to go more this way.
So I'm just going to take my arrow keys and I'll not do that over like so.
But as I nudged over it's not really going to be moving diagonally.
It's going to be moving horizontally.
And so I need to also push up with my Archy's to get it back towards the back.
So something like So should work then let's go ahead and make a copy of this letter and we'll go ahead
and move that in.
And we want this one to be in front.
The way it is now than using my Transform Tool.
I'll go ahead and shrink that down to a boat that size what enter.
And then I'm going to move that over into a place like.
So we want it to line up just like that.
I'm going to go ahead and make a copy of that and drag it over to the other edge and then we need to
drag that layer underneath.
And if we want to make sure that this edge over here gets lined up perfect.
All right so now we have the top piece of our semi truck next we want to add a side view mirror.
So I'm going to go ahead and make a copy of this cube down here and then I'm going to go ahead and drag
that out like so and then I get to shrink that down.
So we want it to be pretty small somewhere around this size.
We're going to put it about in the middle of our cube on this side.
So somewhere about there should be good.
Then let's go ahead and make another copy of this and we're going to drag it over.
So and then we can merge those two layers together.
So novels are one layer.
Lastly we want to go ahead and add the wheels in on our semi truck.
So before we do that I'm going to nudge this whole thing down just a little bit more.
So I'm going to select all of my layers and then I'm going to use my arrow keys to push it down just
like so I want it to be a little bit closer so the wheels can touch the ground more easily.
Then I'm also going to push this back part of the semi truck a little bit closer towards this cube.
So I'm going to select everything that's a part of that back part of the semi truck.
So both those and I'm moving both in like so a little bit more down because we want to make sure that
this bottom part of my truck in this bottom part line up.
Now let's go ahead and add in those wheels.
So there's going to be one wheel on the front part and two wheels on his back part.
So don't come down to my cube make a copy.
Drag that out.
And we want to shrink this damn pretty dang small.
So somewhere around there that will be about the size of our tire.
And then we want the bottom of our tired to line up with this horizontal line right here.
So let's go ahead and enter and get that wind up.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and copy the Slayer move it over like.
So I want to try to get the same distance between here and here as there is over here.
So right about there looks good next.
Let's go ahead and use our arrow keys to push that up so it lines up but this diagonal line.
And then let's go ahead and make one last copy of the Slayer.
I'm going to drag it over here like so.
We want it to be a little bit towards the back.
So there should be good.
Perfect.
Now we want to merge these shapes together so they're all one shape.
So with this guy that we just place we're going to go ahead and drag this small cube We just placed
up towards our main body piece and we'll select both those and merge them together.
So now those are one layer.
Now we have a cube turned on back here that we're using to copy from.
So I'm going to turn that off so you can see what I'm doing.
So now that's all one layer right there.
Next we need to merge the bottom part of our Samite back part of the semi-truck with the wheels.
So I'm going to go ahead and select all those layers and merge them and we can turn that off and you'll
see that's all one layer now.
Now lastly what we want to do is we want to add in our shadows so we're going to have a cast shadow
on this bottom part right here from the top part of our semi truck and we're also going to have a cast
shadow on the ground.
So let's go ahead and create those.
So first let's create the cast shadow from our semi truck.
So I'm going to go ahead and select the shape of that layer then I'm going to add a new layer underneath
it and fill it in with the color black.
Next let's go ahead and nudge that down using our arrow keys so nudge it down to about there.
Now a good thing to make note about is that this corner here doesn't line up with that one.
But when the shadows being cast on it it needs to line up with this bottom corner.
So I'm going to go ahead and grab it and move it over so that corner lines up with the bottom corner.
And now we can go ahead and right click our layer and convert it into a clipping mask so it gets clipped
off over here and then will bring down our opacity to 25 percent perfect.
Now there should be cast shadows on these wheels but because they're going to be solid black you won't
see them anyways so we're not going to worry about them next.
Let's add that cash on the ground being cast from the entire truck.
So what I'm going to do is on the come down below all my layers and add a new layer then using my lasso
to go ahead and draw a shape straight down from this line.
So and this is just to make sure that I'm completely lined up and on the ground.
So I want to be straight down from there when I'm to come all the way down to here you know come all
the way up to here and just guesstimating about where that's coming down from.
Click there and then come straight up like so then we can reconnect that and then we're going to fill
that in with the color black.
Now this is incorrect over here and over here.
So now we're going to fix that.
The only reason why we went straight up like I said is to line up with where the truck is.
Now we can go ahead and click from that corner come all the way back and we're trying to stay in line
with this line or here or Also if any of these lines.
So we just want to make sure that we're in line with those and can go ahead and click and we'll click
around like this and that will delete.
Let's do the same thing over here so we'll click there and trying to say lined up with this line right
here or with that line right there just eyeballing it.
So probably about there and then we can go ahead and connect that and delete perfect.
Now we have the ground shadow.
Let's go ahead and turn the opacity down.
Now like I said before the ground shadow is actually going to be darker than other shadows because the
truck is so close to the ground so we're going to leave it at 50 percent.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to build an entire semi truck out of cubes.
And then we were able to add the shadows and the ground shadow to that.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.
We're going to be coloring this truck.